

===== СТРАНИЦА 1 =====

RULES


===== СТРАНИЦА 2 =====

Unmatched is a miniatures dueling 
game featuring fighters of all kinds — 
from the page to the screen to the stuff 
of legends. Each hero has a unique deck 
of cards that fits their fighting style.
You can mix and match fighters from 
any Unmatched set. But remember, in 
the end, there can only be one winner.
THE UNMATCHED SYSTEM
LEGEND
LEGEND VS


===== СТРАНИЦА 3 =====

1 DOUBLE-SIDED BOARD 
WITH 2 BATTLEFIELDS
Before you play for the first time, assemble the health dials by punching out 
the two circles for each character and connecting them with a rivet. 
4 HERO MINIATURES
7 HEALTH DIALS
6 SIDEKICK TOKENS
4 CHARACTER CARDS
All of your characters in the battle are 
called your fighters, but your primary 
fighter is called your hero. Heroes are 
represented by miniatures that move 
around on the battlefield. 
HEROES& 
SIDEKICKS
Your other fighters are called sidekicks. Most heroes have a 
single sidekick, some heroes have multiple sidekicks, and still 
other heroes have no sidekick at all. Sidekicks are represented 
by tokens that move around on the battlefield.
Each hero has a special ability noted on their character card.
This card also lists your fighters’ stats, including the starting 
health of your hero and their sidekick. Fighters’ health is 
tracked on separate health dials. Fighters cannot gain health 
higher than the highest number on their health dial. 
If your hero has multiple sidekicks, each sidekick only has one 
health (unless otherwise specified). The character card instead 
lists the total number of sidekicks.
HOW TO PLAY
Players take turns maneuvering their fighters on the battlefield, 
playing schemes, and attacking their opponent’s fighters.  
To win, you must be the first to defeat your opponent’s hero, 
which happens when they are reduced to zero health.
CONTENTS
120 ACTION CARDS
1 DOUBLE-SIDED BOARD 
WITH 2 BATTLEFIELDS
ANY
3 
ANY
SNIPE
AFTER COMBAT: Draw 1 card.
1
MEDUSA | x3
MOVE
X3
MELEE
HARPIES
At the start of your turn, 
you may deal 1 damage 
to an opposing fighter in 
Medusa’s zone.
16
RANGED
MEDUSA
3
START
HEALTH
SPECIAL ABILITY
SIDEKICK
ATTACK
START
HEALTH
HERO
ATTACK
SINBAD
30 action cards
1 Sinbad hero miniature
1 Sinbad character card
1 Porter sidekick token
2 health dials
KING ARTHUR
30 action cards
1 King Arthur hero miniature
1 King Arthur character card
1 Merlin sidekick token
2 health dials
MEDUSA
30 action cards
1 Medusa hero miniature
1 Medusa character card
3 Harpy sidekick tokens 
1 health dial
ALICE
30 action cards
1 Alice hero miniature
1 Alice character card
1 Alice size token
1 Jabberwock sidekick token
2 health dials


===== СТРАНИЦА 4 =====

These setup instructions and the following rules are for games with 
2 players. For rules on team play with 3 or 4 players, see page 15.
1.  Choose a battlefield and place it on the table.
2. Each player chooses a hero and takes the corresponding  
30 action cards, character card, hero miniature, sidekick tokens, 
health dials, and any other components for their hero.
3. Each player sets their hero’s starting health and their sidekick’s 
starting health on the matching health dials. (Sidekicks without a 
health dial have only one health each.)
4. Each player shuffles their action cards to form a single deck and 
places it face down, then draws 5 cards as their starting hand.
5. The younger player places their hero in the 1 space on 
the battlefield. Then they place their sidekicks 
in separate spaces within the same zone as 
their hero. If their hero is in a space that 
is part of multiple zones, their sidekicks 
may be in any of those zones. If you 
have to make a decision about your 
fighter at the beginning of the game 
(such as Alice’s size), make it now.
6. The older player places their hero in the 
2 space on the battlefield, then places 
their sidekicks based on the same rules 
as in step 5.
7. The younger player takes the first turn.
SETUP
SPACES AND ZONES
The battlefield is made up of circular spaces that the 
fighters will move between. Each space can only contain 
one fighter at a time. 
Two spaces connected by a line are adjacent. 
Adjacency is used to determine targets of attacks and 
various card effects.
The spaces of the battlefield are divided into zones, 
which are indicated by different colored patterns. All 
spaces with the same colored pattern are part of the same 
zone (even if they are in different parts of the battlefield).
If a space has multiple colored patterns, it is considered 
to be part of multiple zones. Zones are used to determine 
targets of ranged attacks and various card effects.
THE FIELD OF BATTLE
NOTE


===== СТРАНИЦА 5 =====

 A	 overall card type:
	 Attack 	
  
	 Defense
  		 Scheme	
	 Versatile
	
	 	
	
(attack or defense)  
B	 attack or defense value (if any) 
C	 fighter allowed to use the card 
D	 name of the card 
E	 effect when played (if any)
F	 BOOST value
G	 deck that the card appears in
H	 number of copies in the deck
Each hero’s deck is different, though they may 
share some cards with other heroes’ decks.
When you take the maneuver action, you first draw the top card of 
your deck, then you may move your fighters.
STEP 1: DRAW A CARD (MANDATORY)
Draw the top card of your deck and add it to your hand.
You can have more than 7 cards in your hand during your turn, but you 
must discard down to 7 cards at the end of your turn.
ANATOMY OF A CARD
On your turn, you must take 2 actions; you cannot skip an action.  
You may choose two different actions or the same action twice. 
The possible actions are:
MANEUVER
SCHEME
ATTACK
You have a hand limit of 7 cards. At the end of your turn, if you have 
more than 7 cards in your hand, you must discard down to 7 cards, 
placing any discarded cards in your discard pile.
Then it is your opponent’s turn.
YOUR TURN
DRAWING CARDS
STEP 2: MOVE YOUR FIGHTERS (OPTIONAL)
Your character card lists your move value. During this step, you may 
move each of your fighters, one at a time, a number of spaces equal to or 
less than your move value. You may also choose to BOOST your movement 
(see next page). 
When you move a fighter, each space they move into must be adjacent 
to their previous space. You may move a fighter through spaces 
occupied by other friendly fighters (i.e., your own fighters) but they 
cannot end their movement in an occupied space. You may not move 
a fighter through spaces occupied by opposing fighters.
You may move your fighters in the order of your choice, but must finish 
each fighter’s move before starting the next. You are not required to 
move all of your fighters the same distance as each other; you get to 
choose for each fighter. You are allowed to move a fighter zero spaces.
If an effect ever lets you move your opponent’s fighters, you must respect 
all of the same movement rules, but from your opponent’s perspective.
NOTE
ACTION: MANEUVER
Drawing cards — whether via the maneuver action or due to a 
card effect — is mandatory, unless otherwise specified.
When your deck is empty, your fighters are exhausted.  
If you need to draw a card while your fighters are exhausted, 
do not reshuffle your discard pile. Instead, each of your fighters 
immediately takes 2 damage.
A
B
C
D
E
G H
F


===== СТРАНИЦА 6 =====

When you take the scheme action, you choose a scheme card (indicated 
by the  icon) from your hand and play it onto the table, face up.
You must declare which of your fighters is playing the scheme card; they 
are the active fighter. Each card in your deck indicates which fighters 
are allowed to play it. You may not play a scheme  
card if the listed fighters are defeated.
Resolve the card’s effect, then place 
the card into your discard pile.
When you take the maneuver action, you 
may boost your movement. To do this, discard 
1 card from your hand and add that card’s BOOST 
value to your movement value. Ignore any effect on 
the discarded card.
Certain effects (like King Arthur’s special ability) allow you  
to boost other things, such as the value of an attack.
Cards that can no longer legally be played — because the 
corresponding fighter or fighters have been defeated — may 
still be discarded from your hand to boost.
ACTION: SCHEME
BOOST
When you take the attack action, you must declare which of your 
fighters is performing the attack; they are the active fighter.  
You may not take the attack action if you do not have an attack card  
in hand or if none of your fighters have valid targets to attack.
STEP 1: DECLARE TARGET 
Any fighter may target a fighter in an adjacent space, regardless of 
what zone they are in.
Fighters with melee attacks (indicated by the 
 icon) may only 
target a fighter in an adjacent space. 
Fighters with ranged attacks (indicated by the 
 icon) may 
target an adjacent fighter or they may target a fighter anywhere in  
the same zone, regardless of adjacency.
STEP 2: CHOOSE AND REVEAL 
As the attacker, you must choose an attack card from your hand and 
play it face down in front of you; it must be a card that your attacking 
fighter is allowed to use. Then the defender may (but is not required 
to) choose a defense card from their hand and place it face down in 
front of them; it must be a card that their defending fighter is allowed 
to use. Once both players have chosen their cards, reveal them at the 
same time.
ACTION: ATTACK
Maintain your own discard pile. All cards, once 
played and resolved, should be placed in the 
discard pile. Keep your discard pile face up to 
differentiate it from your deck. Both you and 
your opponent are allowed to look through your 
discard pile at any time.
DISCARD PILES
VERSATILE CARDS
ANY
3 
ANY
MOMENTOUS SHIFT
DURING COMBAT: If your ﬁ ghter 
started this turn in a different space, 
this card’s value is 5 instead.
1
SINBAD | x3
ALICE
 
ALICE
DRINK ME
Draw 2 cards. Change size.
2
ALICE | x2
Cards with the 
 icon are versatile 
cards. They can be used as attack 
cards or defense cards. Versatile cards 
also count as both attack cards and 
defense cards for the purposes of other 
game effects.


===== СТРАНИЦА 7 =====

2
2
4
ALICE
THE JABBERWOCK
KING ARTHUR
ALICE
THE JABBERWOCK
KING ARTHUR
KING ARTHUR
 1 
KING ARTHUR
THE HOLY GRAIL
AFTER COMBAT: If King Arthur has 4 or 
less health but is not defeated, set his 
health to 8.
2
KING ARTHUR | x1
KING ARTHUR
KING ARTHUR
2 
NOBLE SACRIFICE
DURING COMBAT: You may BOOST this 
attack. (This is in addition to any boost from 
King Arthur’s special ability.)
3
KING ARTHUR | x3
STEP 3: RESOLVE COMBAT 
Most cards have effects, with labels indicating when they occur: 
immediately, during combat, or after combat. Unless otherwise specified, 
card effects are mandatory. 
If two effects would ever appear to resolve at the same time, the 
defender’s effect resolves first.
After cards have been revealed, resolve any effects that occur 
immediately. Then resolve any effects that occur during combat.
Then determine the result of the combat. The attacker deals damage 
to the defender equal to the value of their played attack card. If the 
defender played a defense card, subtract the value of their played 
defense card first. For each damage that the defender takes, reduce that 
fighter’s health by one, adjusting their health dial accordingly.
After the result of the combat has been determined, resolve any card 
effects that occur after combat. Even if a player’s fighter is defeated 
during the combat, as long as that does not trigger the end of the game, 
any after combat effects of their played card still resolve.
After card effects are resolved, resolve any other game effects that occur 
after combat, such as a hero’s special ability.
Finally, all played cards are placed in their respective discard piles.
ACTION: ATTACK (CONTINUED)
Anna is playing Alice. 
Ken is playing King Arthur. 
It’s Anna’s turn, and she wants 
to attack King Arthur.
Both cards have after combat 
effects. The defender (Arthur) 
resolves first. Ken moves the 
Jabberwock 2 spaces away.
Now, Jaws That Bite resolves. 
Anna may deal 2 damage to 
any one fighter adjacent to the 
Jabberwock. However, there is 
no adjacent fighter now, so the 
effect deals no damage.
There are no immediately or 
during combat effects. Jaws That 
Bite and Skirmish both have a 
value of 4, so the attack deals no 
damage. King Arthur wins the 
combat (for taking no damage).
Ken plays Skirmish 
as his defense card,  
face down.
COMBAT EXAMPLE
WINNING THE COMBAT
Anna attacks King Arthur with the Jabberwock. She 
can’t play Snicker-Snack (it’s an Alice card only, and 
Alice is not adjacent  
to King Arthur) and  
Looking Glass is  
a defense card.  
She plays Jaws That 
Bite as her attack  
card, face down.
ALICE
 2 
ALICE
LOOKING GLASS
AFTER COMBAT: Choose 2 different effects:
  draw 2 cards 
  Alice recovers 3 health
  place Alice in any other space
4
ALICE | x2
ALICE
 3 
ALICE
SNICKER-SNACK
AFTER COMBAT: If you won the 
combat, look at your opponent’s hand 
and choose 1 card for them to discard.
4
ALICE | x1
ANY
 4
ANY
SKIRMISH
AFTER COMBAT: If you won the 
combat, choose either ﬁ ghter in the 
combat and move them up to 2 spaces.
1
KING ARTHUR | x3
JABBERWOCK
 4 
THE JABBERWOCK
JAWS THAT BITE
AFTER COMBAT: Deal 2 damage 
to any one ﬁ ghter adjacent to the 
Jabberwock.
2
ALICE | x2
JABBERWOCK
 4 
THE JABBERWOCK
JAWS THAT BITE
AFTER COMBAT: Deal 2 damage 
to any one ﬁ ghter adjacent to the 
Jabberwock.
2
ALICE | x2
ANY
 4
ANY
SKIRMISH
AFTER COMBAT: If you won the 
combat, choose either ﬁ ghter in the 
combat and move them up to 2 spaces.
1
KING ARTHUR | x3
VS
Some after combat effects check to see who won the combat.
The attacker won the combat if they dealt at least one damage  
to the defender from the attack itself (i.e., not from any effects).
The defender won the combat if they took no damage from the 
attack itself (even if they took damage from effects).


===== СТРАНИЦА 8 =====

TEAM PLAY
You can play Unmatched in teams of 2. Teammates sit next 
to each other on the same side of the battlefield, and they 
may communicate about their cards and tactics, but each 
player controls their own hero and sidekicks. Your teammate’s 
fighters are considered friendly fighters. For team play with 
three players, one player will control both heroes and sidekicks 
for one team.
Choose a battlefield with four starting spaces. (Some battlefields 
have only two starting spaces and therefore cannot be used for 
team play.)
During setup, players place their heroes in alternating order:
  First player on Team A places their hero in the 
 space. 
  First player on Team B places their hero in the 
 space. 
  Second player on Team A places their hero in the 
 space. 
  Second player on Team B places their hero in the 
 space.
When placing their hero, each player also places their sidekicks 
within the same zone, as normal.
During the game, players take turns in alternating order:
  First player on Team A takes their turn.
  First player on Team B takes their turn.
  Second player on Team A takes their turn.
  Second player on Team B takes their turn.
This order repeats for the rest of the game.
When a player’s hero is defeated, immediately remove that hero 
miniature from the battlefield. That player still takes their turns 
as normal, as long as they have at least one sidekick left. If all of 
a player’s fighters are defeated, they are eliminated and do not 
take any more turns.
When both heroes on one team have been defeated, the opposing 
team wins!
When one of your fighters is reduced to zero 
health, for any reason, they are defeated. 
If your hero’s sidekick is defeated, 
immediately remove that sidekick token 
from the battlefield. (A sidekick without a 
health dial only has 1 health and is defeated 
if they take any damage.) 
If your hero is defeated, you immediately lose the game.
When your opponent’s hero is defeated, which happens 
when they are reduced to zero health, the game ends immediately 
and you win!
(In a team game, both opposing heroes must be defeated.)
DEFEATING A FIGHTER
WINNING THE GAME


===== СТРАНИЦА 9 =====

ICON REFERENCE
 
   This card can only be used to attack.
  
   This card can only be used to defend against an attack.
 
   This card can be used to attack or defend.
       As an action, this card can be played for its effect. 
  This fighter may make ranged and melee attacks.
 
  This fighter may only make melee attacks.
©2019 Restoration Games, LLC. The following are trademarks of Restoration Games, LLC: Restoration 
Games, the Restoration Games logo, Unmatched, the Unmatched logo, the “In Battle There Are No Equals” 
tagline, and all associated trade dress. Mondo and the Mondo Games logo is a trademark of Mondo Tees, 
LLC and is used with permission. Restoration Games, LLC is located at 12717 W SUNRISE BLVD, #244, 
Sunrise, FL 33323. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China.THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A 
TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 8 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
CREDITS
Unmatched is a “wonder twins” production by Restoration Games and Mondo Games (we’re Jayna!), 
which was restored from Star Wars: Epic Duels, designed by Craig Van Ness and Rob Daviau, and 
published by Milton Bradley. Zone rules inspired by the Pathfinding System from Tannhäuser, 
designed by William Grosselin and Didier Poli and published by Fantasy Flight Games.
Core Game Restoration: JR Honeycutt
Additional Restoration: Rob Daviau and Justin D. Jacobson
Graphic Design: Jay Shaw, Jason Taylor, and Lindsay Daviau
Cover and Card Illustrations: Oliver Barrett
Board Illustration: Alexander Wells
Editing: Dustin Schwartz and Andrew Wolf
Thank you to everyone who helped playtest the game! You’re all wonderful people. We mean it.
Additional thanks to Drew Dougherty for the rulebook design, Matt Taylor for Alice’s size token 
illustration, and Kyle Ross and Senshistock for illustration pose reference.
