

===== СТРАНИЦА 1 =====

 Q: What does an Enemy mean?
A: An Enemy is either a Boss, a Roaming Monster, or a Mob. A Mob, 
which is a group of Minions plus a Leader, is considered an Enemy as 
a whole. So, any effect which targets or affects an Enemy will affect 
the Mob as 1 single Enemy. For example, if an ability would pull or 
push an Enemy, when targeting a Mob, it will pull or push the whole 
Mob. If an ability would deal Wounds to an Enemy, when targeting a 
Mob, it will deal Wounds to the Mob following the regular rules for 
wounding a Mob.
 Q: Can I kill the Leader of a Mob along with the Minions 
in the same attack?
A: Yes. The Leader of a Mob is always the last one to take Wounds. 
However, if a Mob takes enough Wounds to kill the existing Minions 
and there are still Wounds left, the Leader immediately suffers those 
Wounds. If there are enough Wounds to kill the Leader, then the 
Leader is killed and the Heroes receive their rewards.
 Q: Do Minions spawn from the Roaming Monster Portal 
(purple)?
A: Yes. The Roaming Monster Portal indicates where the Roaming 
Monster should spawn when the Darkness Track indicates it to. 
However, when the Darkness Track indicates to spawn a Mob, players 
must spawn 1 Mob in each existing Portal in the Dungeon, including 
the purple one.
 Q: What do the 3+  and 5+  Portals represent in the 
Dungeon’s Quest instructions?
A: Depending on the number of Heroes participating in the Quest, 
the number of Portal tokens in the Dungeon changes. When playing 
with only 1 or 2 Heroes, use only the Roaming Monster Portal (purple). 
When playing with 3 or 4 Heroes, also add 1 Portal token (green) in 
the Zone with the 3+ 
 marker. When playing with 5 or 6 Heroes, add 
another Portal token (green) in the Zone with the 5+  marker.
 Q: When killing a Leader or a Roaming Monster, the 
whole party gains XP?
A: Yes. Every time an Enemy miniature is killed, the Hero who killed 
that miniature immediately gains 1 XP. On top of that, if the killed 
miniature was a Leader, each Hero in the party, including the Hero 
that killed the Leader, gains 2 XP. If the Killed miniature was a 
Roaming Monster, then the whole party of Heroes gain 4 XP each, 
including the Hero who killed the Roaming Monster. In other words, 
a Hero who kills a Leader gains 3 XP in total, while each other Hero 
gains 2 XP. A Hero who kills a Roaming Monster gains a total of 5 XP, 
while each other Hero gains 4 XP.
OFFICIAL FAQ
MASSIVE DARKNESS 2 - FAQ


===== СТРАНИЦА 2 =====

 Q: When can I use an ability and how many times can I 
use it?
A: If an ability has the word Attack, Defense, or Combat as a timing 
condition, you can use them only once per combat! Which means you 
can use it once every Attack action you perform, or once every attack 
you suffer from an Enemy. Of course, if the ability says Attack, you 
can only use it during your Attack action. If it says Defense, you can 
only use it when you get attacked. Combat means you can use it in 
both situations. If an ability has Move as a timing condition, it means 
it can only be used during a Move action. Please note that most of those 
abilities also include a cost or another requirement, like spending 
Mana or other resource, in order to be performed.
For example, if a Hero has the Spiked Boots equipped, once every time they 
perform an Attack action, or when they are the target of an Enemy’s attack, 
they can spend 1 
 to deal 1 Wound to that Enemy. Even if the Hero has 
more than 1 Mana, they can’t spend more Mana during the same combat to 
trigger its effect again.
Otherwise, if the ability does not have an action as a timing condition, 
it can be used at any moment during the Hero’s turn, except during an 
action. So, it must always be used before or after an action. Abilities 
without an action as a timing condition can be used as many times as 
the Hero wants, as long as they can pay the required costs.
For example, the Wand of the Dead is not tied to any Attack action, 
which means a Hero can use it as many times as they want to Heal 2, as 
long as they have enough Mana to keep paying for this its effect. A Hero 
may never use the Wand during combat since there is no combat keyword 
as a timing condition.
Some abilities have the keyword Anytime. These abilities can be used 
anytime, including during other Hero’s turn or during the Enemy Phase, 
but never during an action. All Consumable items (gray background) 
are considered having the keyword Anytime. So, a Hero can, for 
example, be attacked by an Enemy and drink a Healing Potion after the 
Enemy’s first attack but before its second attack.
 Q: How many times can an Enemy’s special ability trigger?
A: Enemies’ special abilities are triggered by the 
 rolled on Enemy 
dice. Different from Combat abilities on Heroes, Enemies can trigger 
their Abilities as many times as they can, as long as they have enough 
 on their dice roll for doing that. For example, if an ability only 
needs 1 
 to be triggered and 3 
 were rolled, that ability will be 
triggered 3 times during that attack. But remember that dice can be 
triggered in any order, so the Hero may benefit from that, if possible.
NOTE: In some rare exceptions, there are Enemies whose ability 
may only trigger once. In these cases, it is specified in the Enemy’s 
special ability description.
 Q: How much Max Health and Mana do I gain during 
Level Up?
A: The Level token is a reference for how much Max Health and Max 
Mana you have at each Level and it gets updated every time a Hero 
levels up. To know how much Max Health and Max Mana your Hero 
currently has, simply look at their starting Health and Mana and add 
the amount shown on the Level token at your current Level, ignoring 
all information from previous Levels.
 Q: Do KO’d Heroes gain XP? And do they level up?
A: Yes and yes. Even KO’d Heroes still gain XP from killed Leaders 
and Roaming Monsters, as well as from some specific Quest 
objectives. Also, during the Level Up Phase, a KO’d Hero levels up 
as usual. However, it doesn’t matter how much Max Health a Hero 
gains from leveling up, they always come back up with 3 Health when 
a Lifebringer token is spent.
 Q: What happens with Frost and Fire tokens when the 
party enters a Boss Fight?
A: Fire and Frost tokens are removed from all Heroes before the Boss 
Fight begins.
MASSIVE DARKNESS 2 - FAQ


===== СТРАНИЦА 3 =====

 Q: What does “tier” mean?
A: If any effect in the game instructs the players to get a card from 
the deck “one tier higher,” it means the next deck in ascending order 
from the one being currently used. For example, if the Dungeon 
Level is currently 1 and players need to spawn a Mob with a weapon 
one tier higher, it means a weapon from the Mob Item deck Levels 
3-4, instead of Levels 1-2. The same applies for Mobs and Roaming 
Monsters cards.
 CLASS SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS
 Q: Can I place my Hero in a not-yet revealed Chamber 
using the Forge Gate spell?
A: No. You can only use the Forge Gate spell to place Heroes in Forges 
inside Chambers that have been already revealed.
 Q: Can the Wizard or the Paladin rearrange their skills?
A: No. Once you have allocated a skill in a Consecration column or 
in a quadrant of the Spell Amulet, it is locked there. Please note that 
there are special rules for both Classes when playing in Campaign 
Mode, where the Paladin and Wizard can rearrange their skills 
during the setup of each Quest at the beginning of the Quest Phase.
 Q: Where do I remove Rogue Tokens from?
A: When acquiring a new skill that indicates the Rogue to remove 
tokens, the Rogue may remove either from the discard pile or from 
the tokens inside the Thieving Tools bag. If removing from inside the 
Bag, make sure to not confuse the discard pile with the active ones.
 Q: How does the “Move up to 2, then Attack” Rogue 
token work?
A: This specific token is an Attack token, which means it will trigger 
its benefit when the Rogue takes an Attack action with it. In that case, 
the Rogue is not gaining 2 MP. Instead, they must move up to 2 Zones 
before their attack. It’s simply a positioning bonus before the attack.
 Q: Can the Shaman take a Recover action to gain an 
Element?
A: Yes. The Shaman can take Recover actions and choose to gain Mana, 
increasing any element on their Track, instead. Even if the Shaman 
has Mana equal to their maximum, they can still increase the Element 
Track when receiving Mana from any source.
 Q: How does the Rogue’s Poison token work when 
fighting a Boss?
A: Once an Enemy is Poisoned, along with any other possible effects, 
it will take Wounds at the start of each of its activations. Since the 
Boss activates between each Hero’s turn, as long as it has a Poison 
token, it will take Wounds at the beginning of each of its activations 
between every Hero’s turns.
 Q: In Heavenfall, do Classes reset for the following Quest?
A: Yes. From one Quest to another, during the Campaign, Heroes 
reset their Class-specific components, except for their skills. They do 
not gain any new skills during the setup of the next Quest. They keep 
all skills acquired previously, instead, along with their respective 
benefits and abilities. Note that Heroes also keep most of their items, 
their unspent XP (if they have been victorious in the last Quest), as 
well as their current Level, starting the next Quest with both their 
Health and Mana reset at the Hero’s current Level Max value.
 ERRATA 
A few rules need further clarification and some components were 
incorrectly printed. Please follow the reference below for your 
next adventures.
• Recover action and Fountains can remove Fire tokens equal to the 
amount of Health the Hero gains by the Recover action or by the 
Fountain interaction.
• When playing as the Necromancer and reviving a Roaming Monster, 
ignore their Enemy dice. The only dice used for Attack and Defense 
are the Yellow, Orange, Red, Blue, and Green dice referred to on 
their cards.
• Dragon Mask should read: “Action: Add 3 
 to any Enemy in 
LoS.” instead of “Action: Add 3 
 to any Enemy.”
MASSIVE DARKNESS 2 - FAQ
